data/readme.md, before:

# About the Data

Katherine M. Kinnaird and John Laudun[1](#about-us)

The files in this folder are downloads from two sources, the first of which is the list maintained as a Google Sheet and the second of which are the HTML files downloaded from the TED website as per their usage permissions.

We first became aware of a comprehensive list of TED talks when [Open Culture][] reported its existence and that it was being kept up to date. At the time of the report in 2014, the list contained 1756 TED talks. In 2016, when we first decided to begin collaborating and decided to make TED talks a place to start having a dialogue about the application of statistical methods to humanistic topics, the list contained 2209 talks. At the time of our update in June 2018, the list had grown to 2755 talks.

The list itself is maintained as a [Google Sheet][]. In both 2016 and 2018, we exported the list as a CSV file and then parsed and amended the URLs in the CSV as described [below](#from-a-list-to-folders-of-files) in order to create text files that contained lists of URLs that we could feed `wget` in order to have local files. Our preference for local files was principally because websites such as TED's are constantly undergoing both maintenance and development, and we wanted a static version with which to work: we didn't want to develop scripts to parse sometimes bewilderingly complex markup only to have it break the next day. A less important reason was to be able to offer a kind of archive of such a website.

All of the files we downloaded are here both as just such an archive of the TED website itself, which also means that they are available for those cases where others see data within the files that they wish to parse out for themselves. While the latter usage is obvious, we should note that the dynamic nature of the TED website was driven home to us when we began work on the downloaded files in 2018: it became very clear to us that the TED website had undergone a significant re-write of its underlying HTML between 2016 and 2018. `BeautifulSoup` code either returned unexpected results or simply returned errors. The code here is from the most recent parsing of the website. We are happy to make the 2016 files, and the accompanying code, available to anyone interested in differences between both the code and the content of the TED website itself. That was not our concern in the current work.

Setting aside the HTML files containing the discussions for the time being, we used Python's `BeautifulSoup` module to parse the descriptions and the transcripts into two separate CSVs that we then merged into one file which, we think, offers most prospective users the most significant dimensions of the TED talk experience: speakers, titles, talk lengths, descriptions of the talks, tags, the number of times a talk has been viewed, when the talk was given, when the talk was published on the TED website, and the text of the talk itself. We edited certain features of the file, correcting for a few parsing errors and also making it easier for the file to load. As our code reveals, our work is based in Python, and we used its `pandas` library for a lot of the data handling.

What is not included in this particular directory are those CSVs which we think offer extended metadata, but metadata derived from some form of computational analysis. Thus, for example, the CSV which contains the gender(s) for the speaker(s) of a given talk is not in this directory, but in `/outputs`, a directory we maintain for derived datasets.

What follows is an account of the steps we took to get the list of talks, get the HTML, and then parse the HTML into a CSV.


## From a List to Folders of Files

In both 2016 and 2018, our work began with downloading the list of TED talks maintained as a Google sheet. One thing to note is that this record has changed its structure over time. In May 2016, the columns were labelled as follows:

> 18, id, /, Speaker, Name, Short Summary, Event, Duration, Publish date

By May 2018, that structure had changed to the following:

> Talk ID, public_url, speaker_name, headline, description, event, duration, language, published, tags

Since we were after a complete download of the files on both occasions, we focused our attention on the URLs (titled as "/" in 2016). One of the first things we noticed was that the URLs had changed. In 2016, the URLs were by the ID number -- e.g., http://www.ted.com/talks/view/id/53 -- but in the current moment they are a blend of author and title -- e.g., https://www.ted.com/talks/majora_carter_s_tale_of_urban_renewal. In both cases, this URL takes you to the talk's main page on the TED website, which contains the talk's description and provides all of the material found in the Google sheet.

Because it is easy to use, can be made to access servers respectfully, and accepts a list of URLs as a text file, we used `wget` to download the HTML files from the TED website. (The version of `wget` we used is available through the MacPorts package management system for macos.) We arrived at three lists: the one for the main page which came from the unadulterated URL on the Google sheet, the one for the transcript page which we derived by appending `/transcript` to the end of each of the URLs in the first list, and then the one for the discussions by appending `/discussion` to each URL. The complete command we used for each of the three lists was as follows with each list being issued separately.

```bash
wget -w 2 -i ../URL_list_descriptions.txt
```

We issued that command three times, once for each list of URLs -- the prefix for all three files is `URL_list` followed by `descriptions`, `discussions`, and `transcripts`.)Total time to download all the files for each iteration was right around two hours in all three cases: `wget` reported 2749 files for the descriptions and discussions, and 2689 files for the transcripts. (What is not yet transcribed is something we plan to explore as part of the project.)


## Parsing HTML Files into CSVs

While a more detailed account of the work we did is available in the Jupyter notebooks available in this directory, we thought it might be helpful to provide a gloss of our actions for those interested only in a quick thumbnail -- the notebooks are there for fuller documentation. We used Python's `BeautifulSoup` module to parse both the description and the transcript HTML files and wrote the parsed data to one CSV, knowing we would merge the two CSVs, once we had the data we desired. For both sets of files that meant a lot of trial and error, as we found what worked. There are always, it seems, rogue HTML files that refuse to respond to a script, but we managed to tune the scripts to a point to where one a very small number -- less than three at last count -- were not tidily parsed and written to the relevant CSV file.

We began work with the transcripts files, which not only contain the transcript of each talk but also the view count and the length. The other metadata we gathered was simply to insure that the metadata was the same across the descriptions and the information in the Google Sheet: redundancy guaranteed that talks were aligned correctly with their speakers, events, etc.

`BeautifulSoup` makes finding information in particular tags quite straightforward, and the most difficult part of parsing these files was in determining how to get the actual transcript out: the transcripts themselves were broken across a number of divisions what were not named in a human-readable fashion, and thus the following line of code was used:

```python
strung = ''.join([div.text for div in
            the_soup.findAll("div", {"class": "Grid__cell flx-s:1 p-r:4"})])
```

We probably could have stopped with the transcript files and simply merged the CSV into which they had been parsed with the CSV from the Google sheet, but we wanted to derive the metadata for ourselves relegating the Google sheet to an external reference source with which we could verify our work.

The difficulty in parsing the description files is that a lot of the metadata we wanted to access was embedded within a block of not quite standard JSON. Working iteratively, we eventually found a way to reliably get the talk ID, the description, the view count, and which TED event the talk was part of written to a CSV.

After that, we ran through the CSV files, comparing results, and once we were satisfied, merged the tiles using the original public URLs as the basis for matching rows. With the merge completed and `tedtalks_raw.csv` written to disk, we checked the new CSV for duplicate columns, first using the duplication to verify we had matched correctly, and then dropping the redundant information, resulting in `tedtalks2018.csv` which we are releasing under the same fair/open use provisions as the TED organization itself makes available.

## About the Jupyter Notebooks
Please note that the Jupyter notebooks in this directory should be considered historical in nature: while the code in them can be run, in some cases input and output files have subsequently been moved and/or renamed as our own processes and priorities became clearer to us. We welcome their use: just know they may not run as-is.



## About Us

Katherine M. Kinnaird is Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science, and Statistical & Data Sciences at Smith College. John Laudun is Doris H. Meriwether/BORSF Endowed Professor of English at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette.



## Citation

If you do use this dataset, please cite as:

Kinnaird, Katherine M. and John Laudun. 2018. TED Talks Data Set. https://github.com/johnlaudun/tedtalks/tree/master/data/Release_v0.



[Open Culture]: http://www.openculture.com/2014/06/1756-ted-talks-listed-in-a-neat-spreadsheet.html
[Google Sheet]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Yv_9nDl4ocIZR0GXU3OZuBaXxER1blfwR_XHvklPpEM/edit?hl=en&hl=en&hl=en#gid=0

Commit message:

Working on revising readme in data directory.

data/readme.md, after:

# About the Data

Katherine M. Kinnaird and John Laudun[1](#about-us)

*If you arrived here from the _Journal of Cultural Analytics_, welcome! You have navigated one level up from the data packaged and released as Version 0. In this directory are the Jupyter notebooks and the raw HTML files that were used to create the data in the release. More details below.*

The files in this folder are downloads from two sources, the first of which is the list maintained as a Google Sheet and the second of which are the HTML files downloaded from the TED website as per their usage permissions.

We first became aware of a comprehensive list of TED talks when [Open Culture][] reported its existence and that it was being kept up to date. At the time of the report in 2014, the list contained 1756 TED talks. In 2016, when we first decided to begin collaborating and decided to make TED talks a place to start having a dialogue about the application of statistical methods to humanistic topics, the list contained 2209 talks. At the time of our update in June 2018, the list had grown to 2755 talks.

The list itself is maintained as a [Google Sheet][]. In both 2016 and 2018, we exported the list as a CSV file and then parsed and amended the URLs in the CSV as described [below](#from-a-list-to-folders-of-files) in order to create text files that contained lists of URLs that we could feed `wget` in order to have local files. Our preference for local files was principally because websites such as TED's are constantly undergoing both maintenance and development, and we wanted a static version with which to work: we didn't want to develop scripts to parse sometimes bewilderingly complex markup only to have it break the next day. A less important reason was to be able to offer a kind of archive of such a website.

All of the files we downloaded are here both as just such an archive of the TED website itself, which also means that they are available for those cases where others see data within the files that they wish to parse out for themselves. While the latter usage is obvious, we should note that the dynamic nature of the TED website was driven home to us when we began work on the downloaded files in 2018: it became very clear to us that the TED website had undergone a significant re-write of its underlying HTML between 2016 and 2018. `BeautifulSoup` code either returned unexpected results or simply returned errors. The code here is from the most recent parsing of the website. We are happy to make the 2016 files, and the accompanying code, available to anyone interested in differences between both the code and the content of the TED website itself. That was not our concern in the current work.

Setting aside the HTML files containing the discussions for the time being, we used Python's `BeautifulSoup` module to parse the descriptions and the transcripts into two separate CSVs that we then merged into one file which, we think, offers most prospective users the most significant dimensions of the TED talk experience: speakers, titles, talk lengths, descriptions of the talks, tags, the number of times a talk has been viewed, when the talk was given, when the talk was published on the TED website, and the text of the talk itself. We edited certain features of the file, correcting for a few parsing errors and also making it easier for the file to load. As our code reveals, our work is based in Python, and we used its `pandas` library for a lot of the data handling.

What is not included in this particular directory are those CSVs which we think offer extended metadata, but metadata derived from some form of computational analysis. Thus, for example, the CSV which contains the gender(s) for the speaker(s) of a given talk is not in this directory, but in `/outputs`, a directory we maintain for derived datasets.

What follows is an account of the steps we took to get the list of talks, get the HTML, and then parse the HTML into a CSV.


## From a List to Folders of Files

In both 2016 and 2018, our work began with downloading the list of TED talks maintained as a Google sheet. One thing to note is that this record has changed its structure over time. In May 2016, the columns were labelled as follows:

> 18, id, /, Speaker, Name, Short Summary, Event, Duration, Publish date

By May 2018, that structure had changed to the following:

> Talk ID, public_url, speaker_name, headline, description, event, duration, language, published, tags

Since we were after a complete download of the files on both occasions, we focused our attention on the URLs (titled as "/" in 2016). One of the first things we noticed was that the URLs had changed. In 2016, the URLs were by the ID number -- e.g., http://www.ted.com/talks/view/id/53 -- but in the current moment they are a blend of author and title -- e.g., https://www.ted.com/talks/majora_carter_s_tale_of_urban_renewal. In both cases, this URL takes you to the talk's main page on the TED website, which contains the talk's description and provides all of the material found in the Google sheet.

Because it is easy to use, can be made to access servers respectfully, and accepts a list of URLs as a text file, we used `wget` to download the HTML files from the TED website. (The version of `wget` we used is available through the MacPorts package management system for macos.) We arrived at three lists: the one for the main page which came from the unadulterated URL on the Google sheet, the one for the transcript page which we derived by appending `/transcript` to the end of each of the URLs in the first list, and then the one for the discussions by appending `/discussion` to each URL. The complete command we used for each of the three lists was as follows with each list being issued separately.

```bash
wget -w 2 -i ../URL_list_descriptions.txt
```

We issued that command three times, once for each list of URLs -- the prefix for all three files is `URL_list` followed by `descriptions`, `discussions`, and `transcripts`.)Total time to download all the files for each iteration was right around two hours in all three cases: `wget` reported 2749 files for the descriptions and discussions, and 2689 files for the transcripts. (What is not yet transcribed is something we plan to explore as part of the project.)


## Parsing HTML Files into CSVs

While a more detailed account of the work we did is available in the Jupyter notebooks available in this directory, we thought it might be helpful to provide a gloss of our actions for those interested only in a quick thumbnail -- the notebooks are there for fuller documentation. We used Python's `BeautifulSoup` module to parse both the description and the transcript HTML files and wrote the parsed data to one CSV, knowing we would merge the two CSVs, once we had the data we desired. For both sets of files that meant a lot of trial and error, as we found what worked. There are always, it seems, rogue HTML files that refuse to respond to a script, but we managed to tune the scripts to a point to where one a very small number -- less than three at last count -- were not tidily parsed and written to the relevant CSV file.

We began work with the transcripts files, which not only contain the transcript of each talk but also the view count and the length. The other metadata we gathered was simply to insure that the metadata was the same across the descriptions and the information in the Google Sheet: redundancy guaranteed that talks were aligned correctly with their speakers, events, etc.

`BeautifulSoup` makes finding information in particular tags quite straightforward, and the most difficult part of parsing these files was in determining how to get the actual transcript out: the transcripts themselves were broken across a number of divisions what were not named in a human-readable fashion, and thus the following line of code was used:

```python
strung = ''.join([div.text for div in
            the_soup.findAll("div", {"class": "Grid__cell flx-s:1 p-r:4"})])
```

We probably could have stopped with the transcript files and simply merged the CSV into which they had been parsed with the CSV from the Google sheet, but we wanted to derive the metadata for ourselves relegating the Google sheet to an external reference source with which we could verify our work.

The difficulty in parsing the description files is that a lot of the metadata we wanted to access was embedded within a block of not quite standard JSON. Working iteratively, we eventually found a way to reliably get the talk ID, the description, the view count, and which TED event the talk was part of written to a CSV.

After that, we ran through the CSV files, comparing results, and once we were satisfied, merged the tiles using the original public URLs as the basis for matching rows. With the merge completed and `tedtalks_raw.csv` written to disk, we checked the new CSV for duplicate columns, first using the duplication to verify we had matched correctly, and then dropping the redundant information, resulting in `tedtalks2018.csv` which we are releasing under the same fair/open use provisions as the TED organization itself makes available.

## About the Jupyter Notebooks
Please note that the Jupyter notebooks in this directory should be considered historical in nature: while the code in them can be run, in some cases input and output files have subsequently been moved and/or renamed as our own processes and priorities became clearer to us. We welcome their use: just know they may not run as-is.



## About Us

Katherine M. Kinnaird is Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science, and Statistical & Data Sciences at Smith College. John Laudun is Doris H. Meriwether/BORSF Endowed Professor of English at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette.



## Citation

If you do use this dataset, please cite as:

Kinnaird, Katherine M. and John Laudun. 2018. TED Talks Data Set. https://github.com/johnlaudun/tedtalks/tree/master/data/Release_v0.



[Open Culture]: http://www.openculture.com/2014/06/1756-ted-talks-listed-in-a-neat-spreadsheet.html
[Google Sheet]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Yv_9nDl4ocIZR0GXU3OZuBaXxER1blfwR_XHvklPpEM/edit?hl=en&hl=en&hl=en#gid=0
