
## Research/Reading

I'm reading the following this morning:

[Gender language differences][1] offers an interesting, potentially quantifiable framework. Drawing upon Mulac at el (2001), the page notes that men tend to use the following more often than women: 

> * Quantitative references: "It is 25 miles away."
> * Judgmental adjectives: "His performance is poor."
> * Commands: "Turn that off now."
> * Location words: "Take it off the table put in in the cupboard."
> * Brief sentences: "Looks great! Now what?"
> * Self-references: "I'm in agreement with that."
> 
> Poynton (1989) noted that men, in comparison with women: use more slang, swear more often, use fewer intensifiers, **use fewer adjectives**.

Mulec at al conclude that women use more:

* Intensive adverbs	It's so terribly interesting, isn't it?
* Qualifying clauses	In which something is
* Emotional reference	That made her feel rather angry.
* Longer sentences	Whilst I think it would be a good idea I feel you might want to...
* Initial adverbials	Owing to the interest we have now...
* Uncertainty	It seems rather vague, I suppose.
* Hedging	She's a bit like Jane in that.
* Negation	Is it not a Bernini statue?
* Simultaneous opposites	He looks a bit angry yet still reasonably calm.
* Questioning	Do you think this looks good?

> Poynton (1989) noted that women: are generally more polite in their speech (though are no different in sincerity), use politeness markers such as 'please' and thank you', use super-polite 'multiple modalities' such as "I was wondering if you could possibly just do me a small favour, if you wouldn't mind", tend to use **tag questions**, use more intensifiers, **use more adjectives**, use euphemisms rather than swearing.

**Tag questions**: isn't it?, will you?, don't they?
**Intensifiers**: very, really, extremely ... can also reduce: quite, bit. 


References: 

Crawford, M. (1997). Talking difference on gender and language. Sage Publications.

Mulac, A., Bradac, J. J., & Gibbons, P. (2001). Empirical support for the gender-as-culture hypothesis: An intercultural analysis of male/female language differences, Human Communication Research, 27, 121-152

Mulac, A. (1998). “The Gender-Linked Effect: Do Language Differences Really Make A Difference?” In D. Canary and K. Dindia (eds.) Sex Differences and Similarities in Communication: Critical Essays and Empirical Investigations of Sex and Gender in Interaction. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Poynton, C. (1989). Language and gender: Making the difference. Walton Street, Oxford: Oxford University Press.


[Tweet Like a Girl: A Corpus Analysis of Gendered Language in Social Media][2]


* [Women are Warmer but No Less Assertive than Men: Gender and Language on Facebook][3]

[1]: http://changingminds.org/explanations/gender/gender_language.htm
[2]: https://ling.yale.edu/sites/default/files/files/Margaret%20Ott.pdf
[3]: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0155885


## Coding

Okay, so there are multiple dimensions to the issue of gender in discourse. A number of theose dimensions are quantifiable. The question then becomes how to quantify? 

* `ALL TALKS` by `GENDER`
* `TALKS by YEAR` by `GENDER`
* [`TALKS by DISCIPLINE` by `GENDER`] >>> This awaits success at assigning disciplines.

Let's start with `ALL TALKS` as a place to begin to understand how to do this using as much of the `pandas` codebase as possible. In particular, `pandas` has a `groupby` function which *groups by values in a column* which would pack all the talks by women or men into a single row. What I need to determine is if it is mathematically the same to calculate word preference by word per text for all texts or simply word for all talks. (A toy corpus for experimentation would really be helpful here.)

Let's just make up some texts, words, and frequencies. We'll assume we have 10 texts of 500 words apiece, and for each text we have 10 words we are interested in. We can generate 10 lists, each representing the frequency of those words and we are going to assert that the maximum number of times any number appears in a text is 10 times. (Let's hope all these `10`s don't make things crazy.)

